source/user-docs/menus/graph-widget-context-menu.rst, before:

Graph Widget Context Menu 
==============================


Highlight Block
----------------------------------------
**Description:** Open the Color Picker dialog to set a background color for the selected block in the Graph view.  

**Steps:** Right click on a node\block in the Graph view and choose ``Highlight block``.  

UnHighlight Block
----------------------------------------
**Description:** If a block in the Graph view is highlighted, this option will unhighlight it and restore the original color.  

**Steps:** Right click on an highlighted node\block in the Graph view and choose ``Unhighlight block``.  

Highlight Instruction
----------------------------------------
**Description:** Open the Color Picker dialog to set a background color for the selected instruction in the Graph view.    

**Steps:** Right click on an instruction in the Graph view and choose ``Highlight instruction``.  

UnHighlight Instruction
----------------------------------------
**Description:** If an instruction in the Graph view is highlighted, this option will unhighlight it and restore the original color.   

**Steps:** Right click on an highlighted instruction in the Graph view and choose ``Unhighlight instruction``.  

Export Graph
----------------------------------------
**Description:** Export the current graph to one of the following formats:
 - PNG Image
 - JPEG Image
 - SVG Image

When Graphviz is installed, the following options are also available:
 - Graphviz PostScript File
 - Graphviz Dot File
 - Graphviz JSON File
 - Graphviz Gif Image
 - Graphviz PNG Image
 - Graphviz JPG Image
 - Graphviz SVG Image
 -   

**Steps:** Right click anywhere on the Graph view and choose ``Export Graph``.  


Choose Graph Layout
----------------------------------------
**Description:** Choose the layout to be used by Cutter to display the Graph. Cutter supports the following Graph layout algorithms:

 - Grid narrow  
 - Grid medium  
 - Grid wide  
 
When Graphviz is installed, the following options are also available:

 - Graphviz polyline  
 - Graphviz polyline LR  
 - Graphviz ortho  
 - Graphviz ortho LR  


**Steps:** Right click anywhere on the Graph view and choose a layout from the ``Layout`` sub-menu.

Commit message:

Horizontal graph (radareorg/cutter#2234)
* Create adapter for converting vertical layout into horizontal

* Fix edge spacing override for edges going out of switch statement.

* Update documentation.

source/user-docs/menus/graph-widget-context-menu.rst, after:

Graph Widget Context Menu 
==============================


Highlight Block
----------------------------------------
**Description:** Open the Color Picker dialog to set a background color for the selected block in the Graph view.  

**Steps:** Right click on a node\block in the Graph view and choose ``Highlight block``.  

UnHighlight Block
----------------------------------------
**Description:** If a block in the Graph view is highlighted, this option will unhighlight it and restore the original color.  

**Steps:** Right click on an highlighted node\block in the Graph view and choose ``Unhighlight block``.  

Highlight Instruction
----------------------------------------
**Description:** Open the Color Picker dialog to set a background color for the selected instruction in the Graph view.    

**Steps:** Right click on an instruction in the Graph view and choose ``Highlight instruction``.  

UnHighlight Instruction
----------------------------------------
**Description:** If an instruction in the Graph view is highlighted, this option will unhighlight it and restore the original color.   

**Steps:** Right click on an highlighted instruction in the Graph view and choose ``Unhighlight instruction``.  

Export Graph
----------------------------------------
**Description:** Export the current graph to one of the following formats:
 - PNG Image
 - JPEG Image
 - SVG Image

When Graphviz is installed, the following options are also available:
 - Graphviz PostScript File
 - Graphviz Dot File
 - Graphviz JSON File
 - Graphviz Gif Image
 - Graphviz PNG Image
 - Graphviz JPG Image
 - Graphviz SVG Image

**Steps:** Right click anywhere on the Graph view and choose ``Export Graph``.  


Graph Layout Direction
----------------------------------------
**Description:** Graph layout direction can be either vertical top to bottom or horizontal left to right.


**Steps:** Right click anywhere on the Graph view  ``Layout -> Horizontal``.

Choose Graph Layout
----------------------------------------
**Description:** Choose the layout to be used by Cutter to display the Graph. Cutter supports the following Graph layout algorithms:

 - Grid narrow  
 - Grid medium  
 - Grid wide  
 
When Graphviz is installed, the following options are also available:

 - Graphviz polyline
 - Graphviz ortho

**Steps:** Right click anywhere on the Graph view and choose a layout from the ``Layout`` sub-menu.
