index.md, before:

---
homepage: true
---

# Overview

Cutter is a Qt and C++ GUI for radare2. Its goal is making an advanced, customizable and FOSS reverse-engineering platform while keeping the user experience at mind. Cutter is created by reverse engineers for reverse engineers.

<img src="images/screenshot.png" alt="Cutter screenshot">

---

# Get Cutter

Cutter is available for all platforms (Linux, OS X, Windows).
You can download the latest release [here](https://github.com/radareorg/cutter/releases).
 * OSX: Download the latest `.dmg` file.
 * Windows: Download the latest archive.
 * Linux: use the AppImage file. Then just make it executable and run it:
     * `chmod +x Cutter-v1.7.2-x86_64.AppImage`
     * `./Cutter-v1.7.2-x86_64.AppImage`

---

# Building from sources

To build Cutter on your local machine, please follow this guide: [Building from source](building.html)

---

# Help

You can contact the *Cutter* developers and community on:

- Telegram: https://t.me/r2cutter
- #cutter on irc.freenode.net
- Twitter: [@r2gui](https://twitter.com/r2gui)

Commit message:

Added link to CONTRIBUTING from docs/index (radareorg/cutter#894)

index.md, after:

---
homepage: true
---

# Overview

Cutter is a Qt and C++ GUI for radare2. Its goal is making an advanced, customizable and FOSS reverse-engineering platform while keeping the user experience at mind. Cutter is created by reverse engineers for reverse engineers.

<img src="images/screenshot.png" alt="Cutter screenshot">

---

# Get Cutter

Cutter is available for all platforms (Linux, OS X, Windows).
You can download the latest release [here](https://github.com/radareorg/cutter/releases).
 * OSX: Download the latest `.dmg` file.
 * Windows: Download the latest archive.
 * Linux: use the AppImage file. Then just make it executable and run it:
     * `chmod +x Cutter-v1.7.2-x86_64.AppImage`
     * `./Cutter-v1.7.2-x86_64.AppImage`

---

# Building from sources

To build Cutter on your local machine, please follow this guide: [Building from source](building.html)

---

# Need help?

You can contact the *Cutter* developers and community on:

- Telegram: https://t.me/r2cutter
- #cutter on irc.freenode.net
- Twitter: [@r2gui](https://twitter.com/r2gui)

# Want to help the project?

If you want to contribute to Cutter, take a look [here](https://github.com/radareorg/cutter/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to know what you can do to help the project!
