source/index.rst, before:

Cutter
======

Cutter is a Qt and C++ GUI for radare2. Its goal is to provide an advanced,
customizable and FOSS reverse-engineering platform while keeping the
user experience in mind. Cutter was created by reverse engineers for
reverse engineers.

.. image:: images/screenshot.png


Get Cutter
----------

Cutter is available for all platforms (Linux, OS X, Windows). You can
download the latest release
`here <https://github.com/radareorg/cutter/releases>`__.

- OSX: Download the latest ``.dmg`` file.
- Windows: Download the latest archive.
- Linux: use the AppImage file. Then just make it executable and run it: ``chmod +x Cutter-v1.11.0-x86_64.AppImage``


Building from sources
---------------------

To build Cutter on your local machine, please follow this guide:
`Building from source <building.html>`__

Need help?
----------

You can contact the *Cutter* developers and community on:

-  Telegram: https://t.me/r2cutter
-  #cutter on irc.freenode.net
-  Twitter: https://twitter.com/r2gui

Want to help the project?
-------------------------

If you want to contribute to Cutter, take a look
`here <contributing>`_
to learn how you can help improve the project!

.. toctree::
   :caption: Contents:
   :maxdepth: 3

   user-docs
   contributing
   Developer documentation <contributing/code>
   building
   common-errors
   plugins
   api

Commit message:

misc. documentation updates (radareorg/cutter#2259)
* move building errors to the troubleshooting section

* add submodule out of sync issue to troubleshooting

* changes to get cutter section

* move common issues to user docs

* add error related to submodule not in sync

* Grammarly scan on all the docs

* update contribution guide now that common-errors is split

source/index.rst, after:

Cutter
======

Cutter is a Qt and C++ GUI for radare2. Its goal is to provide an advanced,
customizable and FOSS reverse-engineering platform while keeping the
user experience in mind. Cutter was created by reverse engineers for
reverse engineers.

.. image:: images/screenshot.png


Getting Cutter
--------------

Cutter is available for all major platforms. You can
download the latest release from
`here <https://github.com/radareorg/cutter/releases>`__.

- **macOS**: Download the ``.dmg`` file and install it.
- **Windows**: Download the ``.zip`` archive and extract it.
- **Linux**: Download the ``.AppImage`` file and make it executable by doing:

::

    chmod +x Cutter*.AppImage


Building from Sources
---------------------

To build Cutter on your machine, please follow this guide: :doc:`Building from Source </building>`.

Need help?
----------

You can contact the *Cutter* developers and community on:

-  Telegram: https://t.me/r2cutter
-  #cutter on irc.freenode.net
-  Twitter: https://twitter.com/r2gui

Want to help the project?
-------------------------

If you want to contribute to Cutter, take a look at our :doc:`Contribution Guidelines </contributing>` to learn how you can help improve the project!

.. toctree::
   :caption: Contents:
   :maxdepth: 3

   user-docs
   contributing
   Developer documentation <contributing/code>
   building
   plugins
   api
