source/shortcuts.rst, before:

Shortcuts
=========

This page regroups the common shortcuts available in Cutter.

Global shortcuts
----------------

+------------+---------------------+
| Shortcut   | Function            |
+============+=====================+
| .          | Focus console input |
+------------+---------------------+
| G/S        | Focus search bar    |
+------------+---------------------+
| Ctrl/Cmd+R | Refresh contents    |
+------------+---------------------+

Widget shortcuts
----------------

+-----------+---------+
| Shortcut  | Widget  |
+===========+=========+
| Shift+F12 | Strings |
+-----------+---------+
| Shift+G   | Graph   |
+-----------+---------+
| Shift+I   | Imports |
+-----------+---------+
| Shift+E   | Exports |
+-----------+---------+

Disassembly view shortcuts
--------------------------

+------------+----------------------------------+
| Shortcut   | Function                         |
+============+==================================+
| Esc        | Seek to previous position        |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| Space      | Switch to disassembly graph view |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| Ctrl/Cmd+C | Copy                             |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| ;          | Add comment                      |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| N          | Rename current function/flag     |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| Shift+N    | Rename flag/function used here   |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| X          | Show Xrefs                       |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| \+         | Zoom in                          |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| \-         | Zoom out                         |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| =          | Reset zoom                       |
+------------+----------------------------------+

Graph view shortcuts
--------------------

+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Shortcut            | Function                          |
+=====================+===================================+
| Esc                 | Seek to previous position         |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Space               | Switch to disassembly view        |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Ctrl/Cmd+MouseWheel | Zoom                              |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \+                  | Zoom in                           |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \-                  | Zoom out                          |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| =                   | Reset zoom                        |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| J                   | Next instruction                  |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| K                   | Previous instruction              |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| T                   | Follow True/Unconditional branch  |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| F                   | Follow False/Unconditional branch |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+


Debug shortcuts
---------------

+-----------------+----------------+
| Shortcut        | Function       |
+=================+================+
| F9              | Start debug    |
+-----------------+----------------+
| F7              | Step into      |
+-----------------+----------------+
| F8              | Step over      |
+-----------------+----------------+
| F5              | Continue       |
+-----------------+----------------+
| F2/(Ctrl/Cmd)+B | Add breakpoint |
+-----------------+----------------+

Commit message:

Add more shortcuts to DisassemblyContextMenu (radareorg/cutter#1782)

source/shortcuts.rst, after:

Shortcuts
=========

This page regroups the common shortcuts available in Cutter.

Global shortcuts
----------------

+------------+---------------------+
| Shortcut   | Function            |
+============+=====================+
| .          | Focus console input |
+------------+---------------------+
| G/S        | Focus search bar    |
+------------+---------------------+
| Ctrl/Cmd+R | Refresh contents    |
+------------+---------------------+

Widget shortcuts
----------------

+-----------+---------+
| Shortcut  | Widget  |
+===========+=========+
| Shift+F12 | Strings |
+-----------+---------+
| Shift+G   | Graph   |
+-----------+---------+
| Shift+I   | Imports |
+-----------+---------+
| Shift+E   | Exports |
+-----------+---------+

Disassembly view shortcuts
--------------------------
*Most of these shortcuts are also applied to Disassembly Graph view*

+------------+----------------------------------+
| Shortcut   | Function                         |
+============+==================================+
| Esc        | Seek to previous position        |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| Space      | Switch to disassembly graph view |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| Ctrl/Cmd+C | Copy                             |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| ;          | Add comment                      |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| P          | Define a new function            |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| Shift+P    | Edit function                    |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| U          | Undefine a function              |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| N          | Rename current function/flag     |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| Shift+N    | Rename flag/function used here   |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| Y          | Edit\rename local variables      |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| L          | Link a type\struct to address    |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| A          | Set current address to String    |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| C          | Set current address to Code      |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| X          | Show Xrefs                       |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| \+         | Zoom in                          |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| \-         | Zoom out                         |
+------------+----------------------------------+
| =          | Reset zoom                       |
+------------+----------------------------------+

Graph view shortcuts
--------------------

+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Shortcut            | Function                          |
+=====================+===================================+
| Esc                 | Seek to previous position         |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Space               | Switch to disassembly view        |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Ctrl/Cmd+MouseWheel | Zoom                              |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \+                  | Zoom in                           |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| \-                  | Zoom out                          |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| =                   | Reset zoom                        |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| J                   | Next instruction                  |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| K                   | Previous instruction              |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| T                   | Follow True/Unconditional branch  |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+
| F                   | Follow False/Unconditional branch |
+---------------------+-----------------------------------+


Debug shortcuts
---------------

+-----------------+----------------+
| Shortcut        | Function       |
+=================+================+
| F9              | Start debug    |
+-----------------+----------------+
| F7              | Step into      |
+-----------------+----------------+
| F8              | Step over      |
+-----------------+----------------+
| F5              | Continue       |
+-----------------+----------------+
| F2/(Ctrl/Cmd)+B | Add breakpoint |
+-----------------+----------------+
